README.md, before:


# DefConsole

DefConsole is an in-game debugging console for Defold Engine made with ImGUI.

![Example](images/image1.png)

## Setup

### Dependency

To integrate the **DefConsole** extension into your project, add this project as a [dependency](https://www.defold.com/manuals/libraries/) in your **Defold** game. Open your `game.project` file and add the following line to the dependencies field under the project section to use latest release:

> [https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/tags/v0.1.zip](https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/tags/v0.1.zip)

To use the **DefConsole** with latest (but probably unstable or broken) features, you can instead add the following line to the dependencies field under the project section:

> [https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/heads/imgui.zip](https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/heads/imgui.zip)

**DefConsole** depends on ImGUI extension for Defold Engine and to use it you have to also add ImGUI extension into your project dependencies:
> [https://github.com/britzl/extension-imgui/archive/refs/tags/1.3.0.zip](https://github.com/britzl/extension-imgui/archive/refs/tags/1.3.0.zip)

## Usage

To use the **DefConsole** add the
> defconsole/console.collection

To your scene. Then add the `console_toggle` in your input bindings with the button you want to be able to toggle console with.

You can add your own functions and variables to be available in the console. Here's an example of how to do that:
```lua
local console = require("defconsole.console_module")

-- Console commands extension
function message(object, id)
	msg.post("level_holder:/collection0/" .. object, id)
end
ext.message=message
```
Then you can type this in the console:
`ext.message("door", "open")`

`ext` is a table defined inside the `console_module` and is guaranteed to be in the console's scope. 

## TODO

- [ ] Fix error handling for attempts to call non-existent methods in console
- [ ] Rewrite input_text handling using callbacks to be able to manipulate it more elegantly (and fix the bug with keyboard cursor going to the beginning of input_text after history traversal)
- [x] Auto scrolling of console output
- [x] Save story of commands and use up/down arrows to restore them into the input field

## Contributions & Sponsors

Any contributions or sponsorships are welcome. Although all contributors will be shown in special section by GitHub itself, I'll maintain here a list of top contributors as well as full list of sponsors (if sponsors desire so).

USDT TRC20:
> TESXiLVwPrgDqWvPSYfU4pXKc7gTaXcvVE

[ЮMoney](https://yoomoney.ru/to/4100116685386196)

---

Commit message:

Made output_logs changeable from user's code, updated screenshot and README.md
And added console.go as alternative to console.collection

README.md, after:


# DefConsole

DefConsole is an in-game debugging console for Defold Engine made with ImGUI.

![Example](images/image1.png)

## Setup

### Dependency

To integrate the **DefConsole** extension into your project, add this project as a [dependency](https://www.defold.com/manuals/libraries/) in your **Defold** game. Open your `game.project` file and add the following line to the dependencies field under the project section to use latest release:

> [https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/tags/v0.1.zip](https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/tags/v0.1.zip)

To use the **DefConsole** with latest (but probably unstable or broken) features, you can instead add the following line to the dependencies field under the project section:

> [https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/heads/imgui.zip](https://github.com/dima13230/DefConsole/archive/refs/heads/imgui.zip)

**DefConsole** depends on ImGUI extension for Defold Engine and to use it you have to also add ImGUI extension into your project dependencies:
> [https://github.com/britzl/extension-imgui/archive/refs/tags/1.3.0.zip](https://github.com/britzl/extension-imgui/archive/refs/tags/1.3.0.zip)

## Usage

To use the **DefConsole** add the
> defconsole/console.collection

To your scene. Then add the `console_toggle` in your input bindings with the button you want to be able to toggle console with.

You can add your own functions and variables to be available in the console. Here's an example of how to do that:
```lua
local console = require("defconsole.console_module")

-- Console commands extension
function message(object, id)
	msg.post("level_holder:/collection0/" .. object, id)
end
ext.message=message
```

Then you can type this in the console:
`ext.message("door", "open")`

`ext` is a table defined inside the `console_module` and is guaranteed to be in the console's scope. 

Alternatively to `console_toggle` input binding, you can toggle console through your code by changing the value of boolean `console.active` as well as check if the console is enabled using this variable.

Console outputs engine logs by default. This can be disabled by setting `console.output_logs` to false.

## TODO

- [ ] Fix error handling for attempts to call non-existent methods in console
- [ ] Rewrite input_text handling using callbacks to be able to manipulate it more elegantly (and fix the bug with keyboard cursor going to the beginning of input_text after history traversal)
- [x] Auto scrolling of console output
- [x] Save story of commands and use up/down arrows to restore them into the input field

## Contributions & Sponsors

Any contributions or sponsorships are welcome. Although all contributors will be shown in special section by GitHub itself, I'll maintain here a list of top contributors as well as full list of sponsors (if sponsors desire so).

USDT TRC20:
> TESXiLVwPrgDqWvPSYfU4pXKc7gTaXcvVE

[ЮMoney](https://yoomoney.ru/to/4100116685386196)

---
